---
title: "How machine learning can support label-free analysis of inflammatory tissue remodeling using Raman spectroscopy & Multiphoton microscopy"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/ICCP2022
venue: "IEEE Intern. Conference on Computational Photography (ICCP) 2022"
date: 2022-08-03
location: "Caltech, Pasadena, USA"
---

In this study, we combine label-free multiphoton microscopy (MPM), Raman spectroscopy (RS), and machine learning (ML) for in-depth analysis of inflammatory tissue remodelling in a lung fibrosis model. Inflammatory lung diseases can lead to fibrotic tissue remodeling with severe long-term morbidity for patients. Conventional assessment of disease activity involves histopathology grading and requires extraction of pulmonary biopsies and elaborate tissue processing. In this work however, we show an investigation of native murine tissue samples via label-free optical technology for an in-depth quantification of label-free features. While RS allows investigation of the bio-chemical composition, MPM provides morphological features related to cellular components and connective tissue. Features from both modalities show significant differences between diseased and healthy tissue. The immune cell count detected by MPM autofluorescence, for instance, was highly correlated with disease severity. 
Furthermore, we implemented random forest ML models for automated classification of disease severity and investigated the effect of joint multi-modal data sets on the prediction performance. Although binary classification of fibrosis-vs-healthy did not benefit from adding more features from different modalities, multi-class classification of different grades of fibrosis improved by adding integrated data sets. In summary, our results underline the importance to understand ML as additionally integrated tool in the entire workflow and to match the choice of ML model to prediction task and available data size. In the future, more sophisticated ML models might enable direct mapping of biochemical features from RS to structural remodeling and immune activity from MPM or digital staining of immune cell sub-types via image-to-image regression. 
Already today label-free, multimodal systems can  reduce the overall number of specimen and refine the quality of the data, in accordance to the 3R principle for animal studies (reduce, refine, replace). In the end, our methodology might be extended to in vivo endoscopic applications based on our previously described multiphoton endomicroscope, which would lead to clinical applications for faster diagnosis and personalized medicine in the future. 

The presented poster displayed our most recent research that was [published on May 25 2022](https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.202200073), as well as more outlooks to future works, planned for this project. 
More information on the conferece is [here](https://iccp2022.iccp-conference.org/).

